So in the last lecture we displayed the comments and the comment form. And we also mentioned that WordPress
will generate a markup for the comment.
So this may be fine with you.
You can just style it. But in some cases maybe you need to change this markup completely.
And if that's the case then this lecture is for you.
Otherwise it's not.
It's not really necessary lecture.
So to create our own markup we can go in the wp_list_comments() function and then add another argument or another
option. And it's called "callback".
And this will be a function that will be responsible for rendering each comment.
So let's add a function that we'll create it.
So "_themename_" and maybe "comment_callback. Let's go to the lib folder and create a new file. And let's call it comments-callback
comments-callback.php.
And let's include this file in functions.
And then inside this function let's create, inside this file sorry, let's create our function.
And let's echo any string now inside this function.
And let's go back. And ask you can see all the comments will be this thing that we echoed in this function.
So this function now will be responsible for displaying the comment and it will receive three arguments,
the $comment object
and this is kind a like the $post object contains all the information about the comment. And the $args.
And these are the args that we pass to wp_list_comments().
So it will contain the "avatar_size" and "reply_text" and all the other default arguments.
It will also contain the depth of the current comment being rendered. And we'll need all of these
when you are writing this function. So let's close or before doing that let's
var_dump(). Let's echo PRE tags and var_dump()  the $comment object just to see what it contains.
As you can see for each comment, we will have the comment_ID and the post_ID and the comment_author and
of course the date and time and the common_content.
We also have if the comment is approved or not.
And the comment_type and the comment_parent and so on.
So let's now start  outputting our comments. So let's close PHP and then open it. And here we'll
type our HTML.
So we have an LI tag. So remember the post_class() function that will output some classes for the post.
We have the same thing for the comment and it's called comment_class().
So "comment_class()" and here we can also add an array of custom classes. So for my styling I need a class called
"c-comment" and I also need if the comment is a child or is a reply to another comment I need
to add some class.
Otherwise I'll just add the "c-comment".
So to check if the comment is a reply o not, we can see if it has a parent, right?
So we've just seen the object the $comment object that has the key called "comment_parent" .
So if that exists it means that this is a child.
So I will add a class "c-comment" with a modifier of child.
Otherwise I just add nothing.
So let's see.
So now we have the UL. And each LI will have the "c-comment" class
and the other classes that WordPress will generate.
It's important also when you write a custom callback that you don't close the LI. The LI will be closed automatically
by WordPress.
And that's because when you have a comment that has children or has replies, the replies will also be inside
the LI.
So WordPress will check that
and if the comment has replies it will add the replies and then close the LI. So let's remove this. Great.
So let's now create the body of the comment. And let's use an ARTICLE tag for this. And I'm gonna give
it a class of "c-comment__body" and then close it.
Now we need to echo the avatar for the comment author. Inside PHP let's
echo the avatar.
So get_avatar() can take a "comment" object. So we'll pass it our $comment object. And it also needs the
"size".
So let's say 100 pixels.
And let's say we need to add a class to the avatar for styling. So we can add it here.
It takes an array of args, HTML args. So we can add an array and "class" and then our class which is "c-comment
"c-comment__avatar".
And for these two arguments let's set them to "false".
We'll need to change them. So let's see now.
And now we have the avatar.
Next also who we need an "Edit" link.
So if you're an admin or if you are a user that have the authority to edit a comment. It's a good
practice that you put an "Edit" link for each comment here.
So to do that we will call a function called
edit_comment_link(). And this function will automatically check that if you're a logged in user and you're capable
of editing this comment. And it will output the link
if so. We won't have to check this by ourselves.
So it takes a text and before and after.
So we can echo and we can output an escaped translated text. Let's say "Edit"
maybe "Edit Comment" and text domain, "_themename". And now for before and after
let's say we need a SPAN and give it a class for styling "c-comment__
"c-comment__edit-link".
And after you will have to close the SPAN. So let's see.
And I forgot the this.
So now we have an Edit link.
And if you click on it it will take you to Edit Comment page in the wp-admin.
Great.
So next we need to display the time. And the time will be wrapped in a link in an A tag.
And this A tag will be a link to the comment. And you'll see what a link to the comment mean
in a moment.
So let's add an A tag and let's give it a class "c-comment__time".
And the "href" will be a link to the comments. So let's
esc_url(). And the "url" will be, we'll  call a function called get_comment_link().
And this function needs the "comment" object. And it also needs the "args",
this one. So let's paste it. And we can ignore the rest of the arguments. And then inside of the A tag we
can have a TIME tag to display the time. And it takes "datetime" attribute.
an this "datetime" attribute needs the time of the comment in certain format. So we have a function called
comment_time() and the format for the "datetime" attribute is "c".
And finally inside the TIME tag
we will output a string for the time. So let's say we need to display, instead of displaying the date,
let's display for example one hour ago, one week ago and so on. We haven't done this I think in this template so
see how this can be done.
So let's open PHP and let's call a function called human_time_difference() or human_time_diff().
And this takes two times and it will display a string
that will be the difference between these two times in a human readable way,
like one week or two weeks and so on.
So what we need to give it is, we need to give it the time of the comments. So get_comment_time and the
human_time_diff() function needs the due times to be a timestamp. So you can use "U" here for a timestamp and we need the current time
to get the difference between the two times. And we also need it as a timestamp so we can give it
"U". And let's see. I think we need to echo this.
And as you can see 6 years, 5 years but we need to add the "ago" text, right?
So you should know how to do this now.
But just to remind you. You can just think that ok, I'm gonna append "ago".
But that's a wrong approach even if you escape and translate "ago".
You need to use printf() for that because maybe in another language the order of the words will be
different.
So you need to use printf() and use placeholders and a translator will reorder the placeholders depending on
the language. So "printf( esc_html__() )".
And the "text" will a placeholder.
And then "ago" and the text domain.
And the second argument of the printf() will be this.
I think this should be fine. Let's see now. And as you can see 6 years ago, 5 years ago and so on.
So what is the link that get_comment_link() will return? If you hover over here and look at the bottom left
of the screen, you'll find that it will take you to the same URL of the post.
But then it adds a "#" and "comment-7".
And this is the ID of this comment.
So each one will be different.
So when you click on this or when you go to this link, so let's copy this. And let's go to it.
It's supposed to scroll down to this comment.
Ok?
And to do that you already know that we should add an ID to the HTML element that we need to scroll
to. So in our case we can scroll to the article.
So let's give it an ID. Or maybe maybe you can scroll to the LI.
And we'll need another ID for the ARTICLE and you'll see why in a moment.
So let's get an ID here and this ID will be "comment-" and then open PHP. And then we can get
the ID from the $comment or we can call a function called comment_ID(). And it will display the
ID of the current comment.
So
let's see now, let's inspect a comment.
And as you can see "id=comment-7".
And if you click on this it will scroll to this comment.
Let's next to display the name of the comment author.
And we need to do that even before the date.
So let's here add a DIV. And let's give it a class "c-comment__author". And
I'm also gonna wrap this two in another DIV which is called "comment_content". And that's just for styling
I need the avatar to be in a separate DIV
and the other content.
So I'm gonna call it "content" and close it
And it will contain any other content for the post except the author and the edit link.
All right so let's display the author and this is by easily calling a function called get_comment_author_link().
And it takes the $comment object or the comment ID but we have the $comment object. so this will display a link
for the author if the author have a website. And in the section we saw that
any users can add a website in his profile.
So this is what this link will be. And it will display the name of the author. As you can see we've a link here.
This user did not leave a link so there is no link and so on.
So I think this lecture is long enough now. So let's carry on in the next lecture and then display the
rest of the comment.